# Project Requirement Document

## Short project description

This is a wallet dApp that tokenize offline game token (eg. Offline poker card game, mahjong).

Users of this app are not familiar with Web3 at all.

## Tech Stack

Client App: NextJS (with app routing), TypeScript, TanStack React Query, React Context (store data across app).
Solana Program: Solana CLI, Anchor, Rust.

## Functional Requirements

### General

1. All data must be stored on Solana chain, no additional database required.
2. A smart contract (on-chain program) is required to manage all the CRUD for data and token transaction.
3. The solana chain validator URL should be managed by environment variable.
4. The on-chain program will pay for all transaction fee.
5. The client server will hold a system admin wallet (on curve address). This wallet will be acting as the system admin that signing transactions and have control for all accounts.
6. This app should be multi-talency, other people can host their client server and interact with the program by using their system admin wallets.

### User Module

1. Any user can register account by entering username and password.
2. Password must be from 8 characters to 20 characters. Password can only be alphanumeric and basic English symbols (eg. `@`, `#`, `.`, `,`, `-`, `+`, etc).
3. When an account is created, on-chain program create a PDA (program derived account) to be the user wallet.
4. The PDA is formed by the "user" string + username + fee payer. The hashed password is stored in the PDA data.
5. All transactions of tokens belongs to these PDA wallets must be managed by the program only.
6. User can choose to delete account. All the SPL tokens belongs to this account should be burnt.

### Game Module

1. Any user can create games in the program, the game creator will be the game admin automatically.
   - The game admin role can be transferred to other user in the game.
   - Game PDA should be combining program ID, game ID (generated on NextJS server side, UUID v7)

2. Any user can join games as player. No game number limit that users can join, and max 20 players per game.

3. A game can be public or private, private game will still be visible to all users, but it is protected by a password.
   - The game password should be stored into the game account data as hash.
   - Public game will have no password.
   - Only game admin can create or modify the password.
   - User must enter the correct password to join the game.

4. Game admin can choose to close a game, all the tokens in players' wallet are going to be burnt.

#### Game Mode

##### Mode 1: General Mode

In this game mode, players will transfer tokens to each other.

Player may transfer tokens to multiple players at one shot.

**Game admin can be a player at the same time.**

##### Mode 2: Poker (Holdem) Mode

Players will be transfering into a temporary pool.

When a player choose to **showhand** (place all token into pool), this token should be stored into a specific pool.

In this mode, winner will take all (standard holdem rules apply). A game round can have multiple winners, winners will split all tokens in pools equally.

Game admin will decide who are the winners. Then program will transfer the tokens to each winner wallet.

**Game admin can be a player at the same time.**

**Note: this mode should follow the standard Holdem game rules for the token management in pools**

##### Mode 3: General Pool Mode

Players can only transfer token into a pool. Winner of a game round can win partial or full amount from the pool.

Only game admin can transfer token out from the pool to the winner.

### Game Token Module

1. When a game is created, the SPL token (Fungible token) for this game will be created at the same time.
   - Each game can only have 1 SPL token.
   - Players in a game will be using the SPL token as game token.

2. Only the game admin can manage minting + airdroping of the token when user deposit offline. On-chain program will be minting and transfer the SPL token into the player's wallet.

3. When player choose to quit a game, the token in his wallet for this specific game will be burnt immediately.

4. Game admin can realtime check the amount in the game pool.

### Deployment

- Using CircleCI as CI/CD pipeline.
- The client NextJS app is going self-hosted with docker, all of the environment variables must not be baked during build time.
- The solana on-chain program is going to be deployed to devnet. The program ID should be controllable via environment variable, instead of using the program ID directly from the Anchor IDL.

## Non-Functional Requirements

1. The majority of the users will be from Malaysia and Singapore, API response must be less than 1 second for them.
2. The app must be mobile first design. On desktop, should be just max mobile width with margin space on the left and right.
